# Virtual-Assistant-Bot
I along with my team built a Virtual Assistant Bot capable of handling google searches, playing games and responding to general queries on YouTube and Google. The bot is also able to complete simple tasks such as arithmetic operations and setting alarms etc.
The working of our project can be broadly classified in three ways. The first would be how to make the machine understand speech, the second being how to convert that speech into text and the third being how to make our bot fetch information from google.
1. Making the machine understand speech: In this method, we recognize the input speech of the user and make the computer understand the same. This is done by involving various processes like audio sampling, feature extraction and then speech recognition libraries to individually recognize the speech and make logic out of it. The techniques that have been developed are able to successfully extract features in a similar way to a human earand recognize them as phenomenon and sounds, the same way in which humans make them a part of the speech. This usually involves the use of artificial neuralnetworks, hidden Markov models and other ideas that are all part of the broad field of artificial intelligence.
2. Converting Speech to Text: Great, the computer heard our instructions. How do we verify that it got the exact words that we spoke? For this, we convert our speech in the text format so that the machine can further do the tasks that we have asked it to perform. The basic logic behind the speech conversion is that the software that analyzes our speech, it breaks down that speech into tiny recognizable parts called phonemes, which are 44 in number considering the English alphabets. It is this order, combination and context of these phenomes that allows the sophisticated audio analysis software to figure out exactly what we said.
3. Fetching data from google: Now that we have established that our computer is able to understand our speech and is able to recognize the various parts of speech, we need to program it in a way that it is able to perform tasks for us. In this project, we have put most of our efforts on making the bot fetch queries for us on google.
To achieve this, we use multiple python libraries, in particular the web browser library to help us access the data from the internet. We fix certain keywords like
‘search’ or ‘find’ so that the moment the both hears words like these, it instantly takes us to the web browser and searches the query following the assigned
keyword. We assign keywords to our bot of doing everyday tasks like asking the time, to more heavy duty tasks of opening a new tab on google and telling us the current news.
